---
layout: page
title: Projects
permalink: /projects/
---


**ECG Amplifier** [(report)]({{ site.url }}/reports/ECG.pdf) [video]({{ site.url }}/reports/ECG.mp4)

ECG signals show the bio-potential generated by the activity of the heart. This signal can be very useful in diagnosing and predicting cardio-vascular diseases. However, these signals are quite small and hence amplification and is necessary. The ECG amplifier was built from scratch- deciding which electrodes to use to finally viewing the signal.

**Hand Gesture Recognizer** [(report)]({{ site.url }}/reports/Hand_Gesture.pdf)

Recognizing hand gestures has become quite an important task to build user-friendly advanced technology. A system which recognizes up, down, left, right and tilt movements is built in this project. IR sensors and a microcontroller are integral to the project. Additionally, a mathematical operation is attached to each movement and the output for it is displayed on a 7 Segment LED.

**Low Cost Optical Tweezer**


**Noise Cancelling Headphones**



**Number Plate Recognition**  [(github)](https://github.com/ShubAn1901/Licence-Plate-Recognition)

Recognizing the characters on a number plate finds use in many applications like for security purposes and book-keeping. In this project a system is implemented which provides a bounding box around the number plate and recognizes the characters. A customized CNN with cross-linkages and regression layers were used. The model was trained end-to-end for better performance.

**Where's Waldo?**  [(report)]({{ site.url }}/reports/Waldo_Project_Report.pdf)

The pages of the book 'Where's Waldo?' when scanned with a very high resolution constitute an extremely cluttered giga-pixel images. The task was to find Waldo, Wenda and the Wizard in the images by forming a bounding-box around them. We used a non-deep method for the same. Interest windows were extracted using special features like Waldo's clothes the shape of the Wizard's cap. The interest windows were converted to HOG features. An SVM was trained at multiple scales for the final detection.

**Multistage RISC Microprocessor**

Designed and implemented a 6-stage multicycle pipelined processor on an FPGA. Instructions from the Turing complete IITB-RISC instruction set were included. A logic for hazard detection, data forwarding, stalling, etc. was included in the pipeline.

**Steganography using Wavelet Transform** [(slides)]({{ site.url }}/reports/Steganography_Project.pdf)

In today's world data security has become an important issue. Using this as a motivation we developed a system for steganographic concealing of one data into another using discrete wavelet transform. We made the process of steganography more secure by adding a novel patch based algorithm. We presented out findings at the MHRD-TEQIP-KITE workshop for knowledge incubation.

**Iris Recognition**  [(slides)]({{ site.url }}/reports/Iris_Recog_Project.pdf)

Matching a person with his/her iris can be one technique for personal identification. We preprocessed the data by performing Adaptive Histogram Equalization, normalization and occlusion removal. Then we employed PCA (Principal Component Analysis) to reduce the dimensionality of the data and LDA (Linear Discriminant Analysis) to match the person with his/her iris.


**Music Genre Classification** [(slides)]({{ site.url }}/reports/Music_Genre_Project.pdf)

The project aim was to classify music into 6 distinct genres. We used the MFCC coefficients, extracted from the music, as trainable features. We compared the results using CNNs, SVM and clustering techniques.
